Right now, our app has all the functionality that it needs.
It just doesn't look very pretty.
So, I'm going to be walking you through how to make those changes.
So, the first thing we're going to do is modify something called the styles file,
and that's located in Values.
And then it's right here, this styles.xml.
So, I'm going to double click.
Now, this is a file that you've never really touched before,
and I'm not going to go into the details of exactly how this works.
We've provided you with some code,
which will change your buttons to orange,
and also change your action bar to orange.
And this code will do that,
because the styles file is responsible for
controlling the basic default styles of your app.
Whereas right now in our xml,
if you wanted to change the color of the background,
we would do it for each element.
But if you do to the styles file,
it'll do it for the entire layout.
So, I'm going to paste the code that I gave you over.
This color primary here is the color that the action bar will be,
and this colorButtonNormal is the color that your buttons will be. Now, a quick note.
Because of API updates,
this colorButtonNormal tag will actually only work if you have API level 22 and above.
So what this means is that, if you have a newer phone,
you will see the orange buttons,
and you can check it out of the emulator.
If your phone is a little bit older,
you'll still see grey buttons.
Now, there are ways to get around this,
but I don't want us to get too caught up in the weeds of how to color our buttons.
Okay, let's go back to our activity_main.xml.
Okay, cool, so, we can see now that it actually
updated to show that our buttons are orange and our action bar is also orange.
Our status bar also became a light grey,
which is due to us changing this parent attribute right here,
to AppCompact.Light instead of AppCompact.Dark.
It gave us a light theming instead of a dark theming.
Okay, let me go back to the xml.
So, the next thing on our list is to make a nice little divider bar right here.
So, if I click on this linear layout right here,
we can see that it's this view that lives here.
If I scroll down a little bit,
I'll see the other linear layout when I click on it.
Is this linear layout right here.
So, if I wanted a bar in between the two,
I would put it right here,
after which the first linear layout closes,
and before the second linear layout opens.
And because the parents of both of these two linear layout is another linear layout,
I'll scroll up to show you,
this linear layout right here,
which has an orientation of horizontal.
When I put the bar right here,
it's going to show this linear layout,
then the bar, then this linear layout,
all in a horizontal row.
Let me go down.
If you just want to make a colored square,
which is essentially what a line is that runs down the center here,
we can use a view called, View.
Now, just like other views,
this view needs a width and a height.
Now, we want a thin line.
So, the width of this View should be 1dp.
This is what the thickness of the line is going to be.
And what I want is for this line to be just as tall as all the text and
the buttons in the linear layout for Team A and the linear layout for Team B.
So, I'm going to make the height match parent.
Now, this view is basically a box that has 1dp in width and has the height of the parent,
linearly out of all of this.
But we can't see it because the background color is white.
So, I'm going to change the background color to dark grey.
So, now we have a dark gray line that's going down the center of the screen.
But if we zoom in,
we'll see that it's actually going down the entire center of the screen,
even through the Reset button and we actually want it to stop right about here.
So, the way that we're going to do that,
is we're going to start telling things to wrap content instead of match parent.
Specifically for the Team A and Team B linear layouts,
instead of having their height be the entire screen,
we're going to have it wrap content for both of these,
so that the Layouts will end right at the bottom of the buttons.
And then, for the parent layout,
the horizontal layout that's laying out all this,
we'll also tell it to wrap content,
which will wrap the content uptight against
the bottom of the Team B and Team A linear layouts.
And that should make the line the same height as both of these layouts.
So, let's make those changes.
Let's start with this linear layout right here,
which is the linear layout for Team B,
and I'm going to change its height to wrap content.
Good. It's wrapping the content of the buttons right now.
I'm going to click on the Team A layout and I'm also going to change its layout height,
instead of match parent, to wrap content.
So, now both of these layouts here,
are wrapping the content of their children.
But the line down the middle is still extended towards the bottom,
and that's because the parent of
these two linear layouts is still taking up all the space,
because it has a height of match parent,
which is the entire screen.
So, now, I'm going to tell this as well to wrap content.
So, now, the gray line ends here at the bottom of both of these linear layouts.
Cool. Now, I didn't want the gray line to extend all the way up here,
but that's an issue that can be resolved with padding and layout margin,
so, we'll do that in a little bit.
Now, what I want to do is go through and get all the appropriate text sizes,
colors, and the correct fonts.
So, we're going to just start at the top and make those changes.
What I've been told for this first text field,
is that it's going to have a font family of sans-serif-medium.
And it's going to have a text size of 14sp.
And finally also that it's text color is going to be the hex code 616161,
which is a nice light gray text color.
So, that's the font, the size,
and the color for this Team A text view.
I'm going to move on to the Team A score.
Now, for the score, the font family is going to be sans-serif-light,
the text size is going to be a large 56sp,
so that our score is nice and big.
And the text color is actually going to be black,
which in Hex is represented as 000000.
Cool. I'm going to zoom out.
So, for our buttons, we actually don't change anything about
the text styling or text size or text color. These are fine.
But I do want to change the other side,
and I change it exactly as I change the first side.
So, let me do that really quickly.
So, it just updated, so that these two are exactly the same now,
and our text sizes, colors,
and font families are looking pretty good.
So, really the only thing left is to work on the spacing issues that I'm seeing.
We'll start with the first TextView here.
Instead of a padding of a 4dp,
we're going to change it to a padding of 16dp.
Now, here in the score TextView,
instead of a padding of 4dp,
we're going to change it to padding bottom of 24dp.
And that's because with the 16dp padding here
we already have enough room between these two lines of text.
Now, for the buttons. Now, our buttons are looking a little bit wide.
I don't want to give them a specific width,
but I do want them to be a little bit farther away from the edges.
Now, we can't use padding, because remember,
padding is space added inside the view,
and button views have a background color that extends throughout the view.
So, we're going to be using margin here.
Now, right now I have a layout margin of eight.
But what I'm going to do, is change this to
a layout margin bottom of eight and then a margin left and right of 24,
which will keep the same spacing vertically,
but will push in the sides of the button.
So, let's do that now.
So, that button's looking a little bit better.
I'm going to do the same thing to the other two buttons here.
And I'm actually copying and pasting to do this.
All right, cool. Now, I don't want to bore you so,
I'm just going to make the same changes to this side that I just made to Team A,
so give me one second.
Great. Now, my two sides look the same.
The only other real margin that I have to deal with is the margin
for this gray line here and the margin for the Reset button.
Well let's do the Reset button first.
So, I'm going to get the reset button a bottom margin of 8dp,
and I'm going to give it a left and right margin of 22dp.
Now, I'm going to scroll up to the gray line.
That's this view right here.
And basically, I don't want the gray line to be touching the app bar right here.
I want to give in a little bit of space.
And I'm going to be using margin
instead of padding for the same reasons that I did on the button,
because this has a great background,
so any padding that I use actually is not going to really change anything.
But margin, which is space around the view, will.
So, let's do that right now.
MarginTop and we'll do 16dp.
There we go, there's little space above the gray line there.
Now, my codes are looking a little bit
sloppy because I was just adding attributes willy nilly.
So, I'm going to do a command+A,
or if you're on a Windows device a control+A to select all.
And then I'm going to do a command option+L,
and if you're on a Windows device that's a control+alt+L.
And that will automatically reformat the code for me,
it will look really nice and pretty,
just as pretty as our new Court Counter app.
Now, I kind of want to see this on my phone.
So, I'm going to load up my phone right now with this newly skid app.
Remember, if you have an older phone,
it's going to show the buttons as a different color.
But you can always use the emulator.
What a stylish looking app.
Now, the question is, is it still working?
Well, I didn't touch any of the Java code, so, yes.
And the scores are nice and big now and I got
these wonderful colors for my buttons. Awesome work.